OSDOCS-9427: adds multus procedures MicroShift (#75027)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-cni-multus-bridge-nw-example-config.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift_multiple_networks/microshift-cni-multus-using.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-cni-multus-bridge-nw-example-config_{context}"]
= Configuring a bridge-type additional network

> After you have created the NetworkAttachmentDefinition object and applied it, use the following example procedure to configure a bridge-type additional network. You can also use this workflow for other additional network types.

Reviewer: I see this also is the same workflow for all types. Same suggestion for that as earlier. Alternatively, maybe something up higher in the assembly that covers all these topics off the bat, like "the following procedures show the `bridge` type as an example but apply to all interface types" so the reader who is not using `bridge` knows to pay attention?

.Prerequisite

> . You created and applied the NetworkAttachmentDefinition configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You created and applied the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` configuration.
```

.Procedure

> . If it was not present before, verify that the bridge was created on the host by running the following command:

Reviewer: Can probably simplify
```suggestion
. Verify that the bridge was created on the host by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ip a show br-test
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
22: br-test: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 96:bf:ca:be:1d:15 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet6 fe80::34e2:bbff:fed2:31f2/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
----

. Configure an IP address for the bridge by running the following command:
+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 2: The configuration below for creating a bridge is not needed for multus CNI.

Reviewer 2: @pmtk From testing verification steps in https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/OSE/workitem?id=OCP-72796, QE do not need to add IP for the bridge used by NAD. QE testing is just to check the communication between the pods. It's OK to keep those configuration if you want to check the connectivity between the host and pods.

Author: I would prefer to leave the end-to-end docs for now since we have customers doing new configs and figuring things out. We can always reduce later.

----
$ sudo ip addr add 10.10.0.10/24 dev br-test
----

. Verify that the IP address configuration is added to the bridge by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ip a show br-test
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
22: br-test: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 96:bf:ca:be:1d:15 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 10.10.0.10/24 scope global br-test
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 fe80::34e2:bbff:fed2:31f2/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
----

. Verify the IP address of the pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pod test-bridge --output=jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.k8s\.v1\.cni\.cncf\.io/network-status}'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
[{
    "name": "ovn-kubernetes",
    "interface": "eth0",
    "ips": [
        "10.42.0.17"
    ],
    "mac": "0a:58:0a:2a:00:11",
    "default": true,
    "dns": {}
},{
    "name": "default/bridge-conf",
    "interface": "net1",
    "ips": [
        "10.10.0.20"
    ],
    "mac": "82:01:98:e5:0c:b7",
    "dns": {}
----

> . Optional. You can also `oc exec` into the pod and confirm its interfaces by using the `ip` command:

Reviewer: Idk if this suggestion captures the right meaning, but want to avoid using a CLI phrase as a verb if possible
```suggestion
. Optional: You can use `oc exec` to access the pod and confirm its interfaces by using the `ip` command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc exec -ti test-bridge -- ip a
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue qlen 1000
    link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00
    inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 ::1/128 scope host
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
2: eth0@if21: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP,M-DOWN> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue
    link/ether 0a:58:0a:2a:00:11 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 10.42.0.17/24 brd 10.42.0.255 scope global eth0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 fe80::858:aff:fe2a:11/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
3: net1@if23: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP,M-DOWN> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue
    link/ether 82:01:98:e5:0c:b7 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 10.10.0.20/24 brd 10.10.0.255 scope global net1 <1>
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 fe80::8001:98ff:fee5:cb7/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
----

> <1> Pod is attached to the 10.10.0.20 IP address on the `net1 interface` as expected.

Reviewer: This is helpful - is there similar that could be added to the outputs earlier in this proc to show what the user is looking for? It might be obvious to them, I don't know
